My Friend Lisa

I met her at a party at Joy Gardener's house.  I believe it was after I'd finished my internship in New York and I was back in California trying to pass boards and finish becoming an official psychologist.  Maybe 2003 or 2004?  Lisa was in the midst of her graduate studies in Pasadena.  I don't quite remember our exact conversations at that party, but I remember we laughed a lot and just seemed to “get” each other.  We made plans to hang out and proceeded to do that over the years that we were in Southern California.  

She was a balm of sanity and joy in the midst of the sea of Loma Linda Christians.  I didn't feel connected to anyone there and there were A LOT of people to feel that way about.  Loneliness in an ocean of people.  Particularly on the weekends.  The town was dead on Saturdays because everyone was in church and then they'd take off and go to restaurants together and I had spent my entire graduate school experience dealing with the loneliness of free time on weekends.  I never did get over it until I met her.  I think we spent every weekend together.  She was either at my place in Riverside or I was at her place in Pasadena.  I hope I was a balm to her as well.  I marvel at the simplicity of our get togethers.  We were introverts together.  We philosophized, sat in coffee shops, dreamed about our future careers, drank wine in the evenings.  Probably too much wine sometimes.

My youngest brother Alexander was studying photography in San Francisco during these early years when I was enjoying my friendship with Lisa.  I would visit him now and again because I enjoyed him and that city.  I invited her along toward the end of 2004 and the two of them hit it off right away.  I was afraid for her (and our friendship) because he was so alcoholic and selfish, but I think the first bit of their relationship went well.  They were together for 1 to 2 years I think.  It didn't end well, but I'm not surprised given how he is.  Lisa was there when I met Stephen as he and Alexander had recently become friends.  She was instrumental in helping that relationship along.  He and I were interested in each other.  As far as I know, she didn't let him know how I felt, but she certainly let me know his feelings as she had the inside scoop at the time.  A most loyal friend.  She was always good at navigating right and wrong.  The information she gave encouraged me to pursue him despite his seeming lack of interest, thus making her (again) instrumental in my happiness.

In 2006 or 2007, I moved from southern California to Lake County in northern California to begin a better life out of the southern California environment and Lisa went on to Missouri where I think she'd matched to a VA program there.  When I first visited her in 2008, she was at the beginning of her relationship with Thomas.  She was finally happy again after Alexander, and I could see that Thomas was devoted to her as well.  She began her safe and settled existence and I haven't seen her since (17 yrs!) but we've spoken on the phone.  She remains herself and I always enjoyed our wide ranging talks.  We agreed on almost everything.  I like to think that we really got each other.  Over the last couple years, we haven't spoken at all because of her pain and fear. 

I've come to see her pain and fear as intertwined and try as we might to untangle them, no one succeeded.  I learned that she had to recover from our phone conversations (2019 and through COVID).   There was a lot of laughter during them of course.  I don't recall negativity in our conversations, but everything became destabilizing for her the last several years.  I'm glad her parents got to be with her for awhile at least.  I can't imagine her illness happening to a nicer, better person.  Justice continues to fail in many ways that I can currently name.  I spent a lot of time trying to understand her illness.  She would patiently listen to me and explain and I would make suggestions.  In the end, I just wanted to give her some free time from it, but it wouldn't let her be.  I'm so sad about the suffering endured by my sweet, sensitive, smart friend.  I wish I could hug her.  Just one more time....